# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2018-09-13  Minutes

* Participants: Kat, Lucas, Dimitris, Jeremie, Eric
* Regrets: Harold

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: Dimitris
* Scribe: Eric

### Community updates
* Kat: Jose and Andra will be at the [Wikibase workshop in NYC](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:WikiProject_Wikidata_for_research/Meetups/2018-09-19-21-New-York)
  * The focus is on UX for folks who need to run their own wikibase instances.
  * Jose will be working on integrating his ShEx impl with more wikidata tooling.
* Eric: submitted an application for [WikiCite](https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/WikiCite_2018) for ShEx on Berkeley
* Dimitris: can you create a ShEx js embedded thingy to validate wikidata. Wikipedia has [gadgets](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:Gadgets) and [user scripts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:User_scripts).
* Eric: so far, discussion with Wikidata folks focused more on working with the Scala (JVM-compatible) version together with the BlazeGraph backend
* Eric: someone created a new logo for ShEx. Do people like it?
  * Dimitris: We can set up voting on github.


###   Issue tracker cleanup [big progress by Eric]
* Eric: {Describing issues he closed open stuff}
* [ACTION] to Jeremie to review and merge all related PRs in https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/74

###    Divergence between JSON and ShEx in an example - https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/83

###    Resolutions and Notes for 2.1 doc - https://hackmd.io/POx2h6lGQ--SXErxZLRSXw?edit
* compile a changes since latest release document?
    * todo:spec
    * todo:grammar
    * todo:shextest
* Dimitris: we can use this to identify important changes.
* Kat: this is the retrospective side of the roadmap, which was requested in an issue.

###   Dataset support
* Gregg will invite Eric to a meeting to discuss with JSONLD

###   AOB
