# ShEx Telecon 2018-05-10

Tuesday May 10th 16:00 CET / 10:00 ET / 07:00 PT for 1 hour (in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20180510T16&p1=195&ah=1))

Connection details:

* Audio: [zoom](https://zoom.us/j/441496948) (`orElse` [jit.si](https://meet.jit.si/ShEx) `orElse` [Hangouts](http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts))
* Minutes: https://hackmd.io/uYVOpGcBQea8U5eSD1vY1w?both
* Gitter: https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/Lobby

## Admin

 * Chair: Dimitris
 * regrets: Kat

*Next meeting*: May 24th 2018

## Actions
 * Update grammar and close `multi-line comments` #82

## Agenda
 * Community updates 
   * TBD
 * Proposal to accept [Iovka's resolution on recursion](https://github.com/shexSpec/spec/pull/19) update on the spec (including [Eric's markup edits](https://github.com/shexSpec/spec/commit/61920ff7f08e33ebb59a3e5dcf7708ef73190c0c))
 * Dataset support [#77](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/77)
   * Suggestion from Gregg
 * Issues raised by Harold in [ShexSpec/Grammar](https://github.com/shexSpec/grammar/issues)
 * Discuss type inheritance
 * AOB 
