# ShEx Telocons

## Telecon 2018-04-26  Minutes

* Participants: Kat, Andra, Jeremie, ericP
* Regrets:  Dimitris, Tom, Lars, Gregg

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948


* Chair: Kat
* Scribe: ericP

### Action Items from last meeting
* Update grammar and close multi-line comments #82
  * NOT DONE
* assign divergence between JSON and ShEx in an example #83 to a person
  * https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/83, now assigned to ericP 

### Community Updates
* Gregg created: https://zenodo.org/record/1217675#.WuHUKvZG2is for ruby-rdf/shex
  * now citable in papers
* Wikibase workshops 
  * ANDRA: just attended wikibase development workshop in antwerp.
  * ... was not built in validation and modelling but DanielM drew attention to Shex.
  * ... follow-up even June 17-19 with Kat, Andra and ericP.
  * ... There are tools to launch your own wikidata.
  * ... That workshop will be about modelling (with ShEx), lead by Andra.
  * ... got a scholarship to attend wikimania conf in Capetown. may work on a paper.
  * ... LucasW has a slot to talk about constraints and ShEx but he's not going. I may hijack that slot.
* WWW
  * ericP: I geeked a bit with Markus Krotzch. May see him tonight and try to bend his ear some more.
* ShEx Java:
  * Jeremie: put ShExJava on the Maven central repository
  * built website for ShExJava: shexjava.lille.inria.fr
* Antwerp:
  * Andra: There was a workshop in Antwerp on deploying and develop Wikibase instances. ShEx surfaced during this workshop and lead to various issues in Wikimedia's Phabricator: 
* https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/search/query/Zn1vBCgc22bY/#R
* Berlin: June 17-19
    * Andra: There we be a second workshop which will be more on modelling data into Wikibases instances a
* Advances discussion on infrastructure
* Data modelling grant/grant related data
* Write bots to populate Wikidata and WIkibase

### Discuss updates on requirement on non recursive shapeExprRef #19 and rearranging the spec sections
* https://github.com/shexSpec/spec/pull/19

* ericP: Jeremie, are you editing the spec?
* Jeremie: only Iovka. but she's gone for the next two weeks (as am I)
* ericP: hoping that after i finish a presentation tomorrow, I can diff master and Iovka's fork: https://github.com/iovka/spec. The file status.md
 contains the list of the changes.


### Dataset support #77
* https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/77
* Kat: Gregg is likely to be out for several weeks.
* ericP: verifiable claims folks using JSON LD, incentive to follow validation idioms for JSON rather than RDF.

### Issues raised by Harold in ShexSpec/Grammar

POSTPONED

### Discuss type inheritance
POSTPONED
* ericP: What is the next thing you plan to work on, Jeremie?
* Jeremie: Iovka will decide

### Prep for Berlin workshop
* NCI CaBIG, learn from what went wrong there
