# ShEx Telecon 2018-04-26

Tuesday April 26th 16:00 CET / 10:00 ET / 07:00 PT for 1 hour (in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20180426T16&p1=195&ah=1))

Connection details:

* Audio: [zoom](https://zoom.us/j/441496948) (`orElse` [jit.si](https://meet.jit.si/ShEx) `orElse` [Hangouts](http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts))
* Minutes: https://hackmd.io/uYVOpGcBQea8U5eSD1vY1w?both
* Gitter: https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/Lobby

## Admin

 * Chair: Kat
 * regrets: Dimitris, Tom

*Next meeting*: May 10th 2018

## Actions
 * Update grammar and close `multi-line comments` #82
 * assign `divergence between JSON and ShEx in an example` [#83](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/83) to a person

## Agenda
 * Community updates 
   * Wikibase workshops
   Antwerp: Phabricator: https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/search/query/Zn1vBCgc22bY/#R
   Berlin: June 17-19
     *  Advances discussion on infrastructure 
     *  Data modelling grant/grant related data 
     *  Write bots to populate Wikidata and WIkibase 

 * TBD
 * Discuss updates on `requirement on non recursive shapeExprRef` [#19](https://github.com/shexSpec/spec/pull/19) and rearranging the spec sections
 * Dataset support [#77](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/77)
   * Suggestion from Gregg
 * Issues raised by Harold in [ShexSpec/Grammar](https://github.com/shexSpec/grammar/issues)
 * Discuss type inheritance
 * AOB 
