# ShEx Telecon 2018-01-02

Tuesday January 02nd 16:00 CET / 10:00 ET / 07:00 PT for 1 hour (in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20180102T16&p1=195&ah=1))

Connection details:

* Audio: [jit.si](https://meet.jit.si/ShEx) (backup with [Hangouts](http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts))
* Minutes: https://pad.okfn.org/p/shex-cg

## Admin

 * Chair: Dimitris
 * regrets: Kat

*Next meeting*: Jan 16th 2018

## Agenda
 * Community updates
 * Decide on day for Shape extensions/restrictions meeting 
 * Multiple raised issues on the spec by Harold
 * Lars' [merge request](https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/pull/11) for [issue #10](https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/issues/10)
   * Can we close [issue #10](https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/issues/10)?
 * Constraint weights / severities for ShEx: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/76
 * Discuss dataset support: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/77
 * Update on state of ShExDoc.g4
 * AOB 
