# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2018-06-08  Minutes

* Participants: Dimitris, Kat, Jeremie, ericP, Tom, Andra, Lucas
* Regrets: Lars

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948


* Chair: Dimitris
* Scribe: Kat

### Action Items from last meeting
* 

### Community Updates
#### IIIF 2018 [http://iiif.io/]
* Kat: Attended IIIF 2018 [http://iiif.io/] I'd like to use ShEx to describe profiles  of image metadata. They are using json-ld and are aware of all related technologies. Got introduced to Rob Sanderson

#### Workshop proposed related to ShEx at SWIB 2018
* Kat: Tom, Andra, Eric and I proposed a workshop and waiting for feedback

#### ISWC

* Kat: Paper submission to International Semantic Web Conference was not accepted, hoping to submit to journal

#### ShEx work at Berlin workshop
Workshop sponsored by ERC and hosted by [WMDE](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:WikiProject_Wikidata_for_research/Meetups/2018-06-17-19-Berlin)

### Progress update on recursion issue reported by Peter
* Peter pinged Dimitris to ask for updates
* Jeremie: Iovka did a PR today. Waiting for merge and then will contact Peter.
* Dimitris: Peter suggested we make a note to announce this change.
* ericP: Working on formatting fixes.
* Dimitris: You have our support to merge.
* ericP: What should the note say?
* Dimitris: From version 2.0 we have this change in the semantics.
* ericP: Is this a clarification or improvement to the expression of the semantics. Status of the document section?

### Feedback on improving meeting structure
* Dimitris: I would like feedback. Community updates helpful?
* ericP: We learn stuff and get enthusiasm for others' initiatives.
* Dimitris: How do we pick topics for the agenda?
* ericP: Content with how things are. 
* Tom: Vote for status quo
* Dimitris: How to pick topics?
* Kat: Was a little intimidated to add topics at first. Now feeling more comfortable.

### Discuss type inheritance
* Dimitris: Any progress?
* ericP: When you extend a restriction- the partition allocated from one shape apply to another shape. 45mins-an hour to work through examples with me. 
* kat will work with ericP on the examples.

### Dataset support #77
* ericP: Another use case. Create a validator for FAIR data (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable). We could test our graph syntax. 

