# ShEx Telocons

## Telecon 2018-05-10  Minutes

* Participants: Dimitris, Eric, Harold
* Regrets: Kat, Tom, Lars

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948


* Chair: Dimitris
* Scribe: Dimitris

### Action Items from last meeting
* Update grammar and close multi-line comments #82


### Community Updates
* Eric to give a shex webinar for DCMI on may 22nd
* Andra: Workshop on modeling grant information in Wikidata/Wikibase, (June 17-19) in Berlin. Using ShEx to capture and document the schema
* Andra: Workshop on Digital preservation in Wikidata/Wikibase (Early July) in New York. Using ShEx to capture and document the schema

###  Iovka's resolution on recursion 
* https://github.com/shexSpec/spec/pull/19
* Eric: I propose to merge the PR and then I have some minor typographical fixes to follow. Iovka can review them after she returns from holidays
* Harold: asking about json changes
* Eric: fixing typos like commas etc
* Harold: how much does these changes affect the semantics or the parser
* Eric: None, only inclusion criteria on what is a viable schema
* Harold: can these be detected at compile time, runtime or what do we do with invalid shapes
* Eric: We can be flexible, if there is a static analysis would be great otherwise it is fine
* Harold: will there be any tests
* Eric: definitely, these tests can guide people for implementations
* Eric: do we include inheritance changes from now
* Dimitris: any implication with recursion?
* Eric: I don't think so but need to create tests

ACTION on Eric to make sure the compilation to on-shape-expression can't create cycles.

PROPOSAL: accept Iovkas PR for resolving recursion issues
* Eric: +1
* Dimitris: +1
* Harold: +1
* Andra: +1

RESOLVED: Accept Iovkas PR for resolving recursion issues
Dimitris: merged

* Eric: we need to create some tests before responsing to Peter's issue report, will work with Jeremy on this.

### Grammar issues
https://github.com/shexSpec/grammar/issues

* Eric: Jose is the other person that knows the G4. We can delegate all grammar decision to Harold and Jose
* Harold: Not sure if Jose is using G4

### Dataset support
https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/77

* Eric: Greg is involved in verifiable claims WG that using json-ld 1.1 ... [describing issue raised by Greg]...
* Dimitris: examples from 2 meetings ago: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20180412-minutes.md
  
