# ShEx Telecon 2018-06-07

Tuesday June 7th 16:00 CET / 10:00 ET / 07:00 PT for 1 hour (in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20180607T16&p1=195&ah=1))

Connection details:

* Audio: [zoom](https://zoom.us/j/441496948) (`orElse` [jit.si](https://meet.jit.si/ShEx) `orElse` [Hangouts](http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts))
* Minutes: https://hackmd.io/uYVOpGcBQea8U5eSD1vY1w?both
* Gitter: https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/Lobby

## Admin

 * Chair: Dimitris
 * regrets: 

*Next meeting*: June 21st 2018



## Agenda
 * Community updates 
 * Progres update on recursion issue reported by Peter
 * Feedback on improving meeting structure
 * Dataset support [#77](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/77)
 * Discuss type inheritance
 * AOB 
