# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2018-10-11  Minutes

* Participants: ericP, Jose, Lucas, Andra*, TomB
* Regrets: …

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/441496948

* Chair: ericP
* Scribe: ericP and others

### Community updates

* ISWC Validating RDF Tutorial ([slides](http://www.validatingrdf.com/tutorial/iswc2018/))
    * Labra: validating RDF in general
    * ... ~ 20 people
    * ... ShEx, SHACL, comparison
    * ... some new people are considering ShEx
    * ... Met Kat and Iovka
    * ... Iovka proposed a ShEx meeting in Lille; close to Germany and Spain
    * ericP: from what I heard, we need to promote our products
    * Tom: can we put Harold's into rdflib (python)?

* SWIP Tutorial
    * Andra: wikidata and ShEx tutorials
    * Tom: Doodle poll for discussing the upcoming SWIB tutorial: https://doodle.com/poll/ytzwbuv5bbeqe64p

### F2F in Lille
* Labra: can get there from Spain and Germany

### F2F in Antwerp 
* Andra: SWAT4LS in Antwerp in Dec is 1 hour from Lille
* ericP: so 7-8 Dec?
* Labra: doesn't work for me. Maybe Jan or Feb.

### Testing

* We got a solid ShEx 2.1 testsuite. Eric's implementation passes all tests. Harold almost and Jose is about 30 to go.

* It would be nice to announce a release candidate (mentioning compliance of three implementations with test suite in the eannouncement?) around or during ISWC
  * trying to weigh comparative value of having release candidate and then sending out implementation report versus having them together (leaning to latter - e.g., not this week)
  * has Tom been in contact with Greg lately? – no, not much
  * wait for implementation report versus putting out release now for attn at ISWC
 
 PROPOSAL: wait a bit.
   
   ericP: +1
   Lucas: +1
   Andra: +1
   TomB: +1
 
 ### Wikicite
 
 * Andra: ericP, Labra and I are going to Berkely for Wikicite.
 * ... We want to render ShEx applied to a wikidata item.
 * ... e.g. red: item is b0rked, gree: item is good, yellow: not visited
 * Lucas: there's not a lot in this direction.
 * ... there's a place in the HTML to stick an icon -- currently used by QualityConstraints.
 * ... nothing to paint a statement red
 * Andra: been fiddling with CSS and HTML but unsuccessful so far. Want to share Shape Expressions in a more wikidata approach.
 * Lucas: i'm not sure how to render on an item but in general, this sounds like a good idea.
 * Andra: in ericP's impl, you run a query, get some items, and generate a report.
 
 * general challenge when showing ShEx errors: hard to say what went wrong where
   * but easy for simple (conjunctive) shapes
   * different implementations might give different answers
   * common question: why was it trying to validate node X against shape Y (instead of why does X not match Y)
 
 * ericP’s vision for validation: have a list of schemas that might be applied to an item (recommendations, e. g. from WikiProjects)
 * Andra’s vision: a dashboard with issues, click and it sends you to Wikidata to fix problems
     * undecided whether doing it on wikidata or in a separate tool mimicking wikidata is better

### meeting time

moving the meeting a couple of hours earlier, or to Wednesday, would work for most people

Wednesday 2pm (Central European?) works for most people and might get us Iovka, Jose and Harold

ADJOURNED

