## Telecon 2020-01-08
Chair: Andra
Attendees: ericP, John, Kat, Josh Moore, Nishad, Tom
Regrets:

### Introductions

Josh: univ of Dundee, [omexml](https://docs.openmicroscopy.org/ome-model/5.6.3/ome-xml/), met Andra at swat4ls, would like to understand how to integrate ShEx into a larger ecosystem



### Community Updates

Andra: started first Shape Expressions on biodiversity [GBIF datasets](https://www.gbif.org/dataset/search)
... it's too large to fit in wikidata.
... every dataset also has a DOI.
... license: CC0.
... they capture the license for every dataset.
... There's a new platform for hosting wikibases called WBStack
... we're pushing some observational data to wikidata.

Andra: Jose got a grant to do linked data for Spanish research
... will be backed by ShEx.
... see @@1

Kat: in mid-dec, Merlin mailed the CG about a paper about ShEx and SHACL.
... he'd like feedback from our group.
... I read his paper over the last couple days and am ready to provide feedback
... he likes feedback in GH issues.
... should we invite him to discuss ShEx here?
Andra: sounds good. in the regular meeting or a special seminar?
Kat: focused one would be a good idea so we don't have to take over a meeting.
Tom: we could circulate a reading list and come prepared
ericP: I propose the alternate week to our weekly meetings.
Andra, Tom: sounds good.

Andra: did you see email from Nick Carr wrt the PROF ontology?
Tom: they put it out for comments about a year ago and we responded 10-11 months ago.
... it's no longer on the W3C Rec Track.
... hard to know what's changed so the burden would be on us to compare what's there now against our last comments.
Andra: should we discuss it here?
Tom: I'll be looking at it to assess the state but i don't think it's urgent or needs discussion here.

Andra: Josh, anything we can help with?
Josh: our project manages the Image Data Resource.
... it would be nice to integrate the metadata with Wikidata
... expect to be in Japan in Feb for a hackathon to convert the metadata from IDR
... There's a group going through ISO standardization on PROV
Andra: will Nishad be in this meeting?
Nishad: i don't know of any LOD meetings in Feb.

### Structure for working toward publishing 2.2
Andra: Should we start talking about this regularly?
ericP: We need another implementation to run through the test suites
... then shouldn't be too far for 2.2
Andra: I can check if PyShEx already supports 2.1
ericP: We could liberalize the places where you can put the annotation
... leading annotations that are different from trailing annotations
... that would make this issue be less useful, so that is the trade off
... one is easier, the other will meet more use cases
Andra: Can you ask some people to respond to issue 96?
ericP: I can contact Labra and Harold
Andra: anything else?
ericP: EXTENDS is most important, UNIQUE is next, annotation issue
Andra: So these are the 3?
ericP: We could cut, but those are the 3 contenders in order of importance
Andra: When would you like EXTENDS?
ericP: ASAP

### Issues
Andra: We have 3 places to watch for issues: github, phabricator for WikiProject Schemas, phabricator for ShEx (WMDE dev team)

Andra: We now have a calendar
ericP: Where can we find .ics?
Andra: Where will we communicate announcements?
ericP: It is currently in agenda, only people who know to use agenda will find this, so perhaps we need it in the README
John: I agree with the need to make .ics available
Andra: I will do that.
Tom: Make sure there is always a link at the top of the agenda
ericP: /spec is where we store issues, so that is the place you'd look there for pointers for agendas
Andra: Would shex.io be a good place?
ericP: it is easy to update
Andra: Do I have access?
ericP: Maybe Dimitris could set up adding you as co-chair
Tom: I propose adding an agenda item for next meeting to review these 
ACTION: Tom and Andra to review Web and GH pages that need to be kept up-to-date => report on next call.
ericP: Issues are in https://github.com/shexSpec/shex and it would make sense to have pointers in the README. 

## 95 - https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/95
ericP: We haven't specified shapemaps
... the way they show up in the tooling, you can use prefixes from your data 
... not explicit where the namespaces come from
... eventually spec will need to say it is implementation dependent where the prefixes and bases for the resolution of relative IRIs come from
Andra: Can you comment on the issue to move this forward?
ericP: Yes.

## Investigate shex for GLAM
Andra: We haven't gotten any responses since Nov, I am inclined to close
ericP: Who raised it
Andra: a Wikidata person from WMSE
John: We could list the existing schemas on this issue

## continuity of projects
Andra: I will close this

## meetings
Andra: Should we add a section about possible meetings?

Nishad: Would be nice to have ShEx equivalent of http://try.github.io/ 



