# ShEx Telecon 2020-08-05

*Wednesday August 5th, 2020 14:00 CET / 08:00 EDT / 05:00 PDT for 1 hour (in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20200722T14&p1=195&ah=1))*

*Connection details*:

* Audio: https://meet.google.com/bcj-ebic-mkk
* Gitter: https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/Lobby

*Next meetings*: [calendar](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=N2VyOGMyYjJnZTVma25qMWhlYWF2YmYycHFfMjAyMDAxMDhUMTMwMDAwWiBtaWNlbGlvLmJlX2FjM2xqNzNqdTA0YTY3OGIwaHRsMXBpamRvQGc&tmsrc=micelio.be_ac3lj73ju04a678b0htl1pijdo%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

The meeting is open for participation. Being a [Shex community group member](https://www.w3.org/community/shex/participants) is not a requirement to attend.

## Agenda

* Introductions

* Community updates
  * lighthouse (@Gnomus042)
  * ShapeRepo

* Webinar sequence

   Wikipedia Weekly: [July 20 episode](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nM8kXuZM3lQ)

* WARN logistics

## Minutes
  
Chair: ericP

Attendees: 

Regrets:
* Andra (vacation),
* SJ (audio dropping) - great to see this w.weekly episode mentioned.
Also: [rex](https://underlay.github.io/rex) is easier to experiment with now.

### ShapeRepo

introduced by Jackson

* jackson: shaperepo has lots of existing schemas. ericP and danrbi have added to my queue
* ... supports nice conneg which helps with ShEx loaders.
* ... plan to use this as a cache for shapes
* ... would like feedback, additional features
* ... currently no automatic way to add schemas; need to notify me for now
* ... want to create and an automatic importer for schema.org
* 
* danbri: could add that to schema.org
* ... there are two sorts of shapes at schema.org
* ... 1. boring list of properties
* ... 2. app-oriented schema that works for a given tool
* 
* kat: is the update from wikidata automatic?
* 
* jackson: i don't have any webhooks to do that. could set up an automatic crawler.
* ... for the moment, email shaperepo@o.team
* 
* danbri: kind of a wild-west.
* 
* jackson: current solution; link back to the source
* ... will pull out the RDF descriptions from each source
* ... want to use this to unify shapes
* ... e.g. shapes that reference names vs. duplicate names
* ... may build two versions; orig and more integrated
* ... would like this to feel like schema.org in terms of organization and re-use
* 
* danbri: similar to [Linked Open Vocab](https://lov.linkeddata.es/dataset/lov/) project
* 
* jackson: LOV but for shapes
* 
* ericP: DCMI interested in a repo?
* 
* tom: not now. we have schemas here and there.
* ... on the other hand, [bibframe](https://www.loc.gov/bibframe/) is monolithic
* ... within BibFrame, they'd want their own repo.
* ... but it's a closed community as everything happens within BibFrame.
* ... don't know if they'd be interested in re-using other schemas.
* 
* ericP: feature req: tags for communities.
* 
* kat: i was thinking it could be a flag by domain
* 
* jackson: could add tags
* 
* ericP: two kinds (so far): community and topic
* 
* danbri: been pinging my contacts at Apple and Bing.
* ... the secret to our success is that it was weak enough that no one could disagree.
* ... boring and obvious stuff that's already on the web
* ... leaves a hole for shapes.
* ... if you're working on a recipe platform, you'll want as much stuff as possible, including pics.
* ... .. if you're working on a schema for your blind friends, you shouldn't have to include an image.
* ... folks either don't see the need or assume that schema.org already does it 'cause they don't look at the details.
* 
* jackson: could do customer discovery
* 
* danbri: any project where you create an ontology,
* ... it used to be that if you reused other ontologies, you hadn't "produced anything".
* ... they justified their funding and they could author schemas while reusing vocabs, ontologies.
* 
* jackson: would like to stay in contact; will probably show up in meetings.
* ... will post on ShapeExpressions/Lobby

### lighthouse

introduced by Anastasiia

* Anastasiia: intern at google working on ShEx and SHACL
* ... i have a bunch of ShEx shapes for different platforms
* ... .. e.g. pinterest, yandex, bing, google
* ... current problem is that i have to define two different shapes to get output
* ... i validate against non-strict shape to get errors and strict shapes to get warnings
* ... it would be nice to annotate to say that something is a warning.
* 
* Eric - you can stick arbitrary annotations into 
* shex, as you've done here with techdoc:url, techdoc:description but it has no impact on validation. You might not care about that if you just want the messages, 
* but if you have a Recipe and Ingredients, and something in latter 
* is wrong that messes up the Recipe as well ...
* Challenge is finding a way to write down something (e.g. discussion of
* WARN keyword) to capture this in a way that can affect validation
* 
* Eric: in eg. schema.org, when you decide something is a 
* warning instead of an error, what does it means for what 
* people can do?

(aside: https://www.seroundtable.com/google-deprecate-the-structured-data-testing-tool-29737.html )

``` shex
PRESENT: minCard, maxCard
SOUND: minCard, maxCard, type

<#recipe> {
  SOUND
  :recipe {
    :name xsd:string ;
  }
}
```

### yaml DCMI

* tom: i've created read-the-docs docs

* ericP: field-tested?

* tom: just started writing three weeks ago; still working on code.
* ... idea is to parse CSV
* ... so e.g. what column would a URI stem go into?
* ... can't replicate all of ShEx, but covers a lot of basic use cases.
* ... the minimal app profile is a list of properties.
* ... so that has a default interpretion as ShEx
