# ShEx Telecon 2019-06-19

*Wednesday June 19 14:00 CET / __05:00 PDT__ for 1 hour (in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20190619T14&p1=195&ah=1))*

*Connection details*:
* Audio: [zoom](https://zoom.us/j/441496948) (`orElse` [jit.si](https://meet.jit.si/ShEx) `orElse` [Hangouts](http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts))
* Minutes: https://hackmd.io/1DLwG2L6R1ewRRLVGT4Hkw?edit (not https://hackmd.io/uYVOpGcBQea8U5eSD1vY1w?both)
* Gitter: https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/Lobby

*Admin*:
 * Chair: Dimitris
 * Regrets: Tom

*Next meeting*: July 3rd 2019

### Agenda
*(feel free to extend before the meeting)*

* Introductions
* Community updates
  * [TimBL discusses ShEx](https://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Footprints.html)
* Communication channels
  * [ShEx CG blog](https://www.w3.org/community/shex) - Eric and Tom posted two announcements there yesterday.  We should use this more frequently.
  * [@rdfShEx twitter](https://twitter.com/rdfShEx) - we also set up a Twitter feed
  * [gitter/jupyter channel](https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/jupyter) has some interesting discussion
* Discuss ShEx 2.1 publication
* [Progress on EXTENDS](https://rawgit.com/shexSpec/primer/extends/index.html#extension)
* Discuss
  * Recent issues on Primer: https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/issues
  * Recent issues on smape-map: https://github.com/shexSpec/shape-map/issues
* Other recently opened issues
* AOB
