# ShEx Telecons

## Telecon 2019-10-23 Minutes

* Participants: Andra, Tom (text-only), Kat, Nishad, ericP, Dimitris
* Expected participants: 

## Community updates

andra: talking with Tom, Rajaram, someone from @@1 about visualization
... Labra has schema visualization
... Rajaram has the other way around, from visual to shex
... Labra's PHD student has ShExML
... we set up a skype channel to discuss this stuff
... can move to gitter but some folks don't use gitter
... some folks don't like gitter.
... will suggest it but we are in danger of losing 40% of the audience.
... (could look into skype-to-gitter)
... we have enough tooling in the group to make a first prototype

ericP: Mayo just got a grant to work on FHIR/RDF and ShEx

Andra: I found someone to work on Japanese translation of ShEx.
ericP: what's the priority? Primer?

## ShEx Workshop at Wikidatacon

andra: Sat afternoon, 55 mins. need to brainstorm
... 1. ericP on ShEx
... 2. Lucas ShEx at Wikidata
... 3. Labra will introduce his group's toolchain
... 4. Tom to talk about application profiles
... some requests for hand-on.
kat: will Lucas demo stuff from the E: namespace?
andra: don't know. he said he doesn't need more than 5 mins.
kat: it would be awesome to have the room witness validation.
andra: my talk is on large-scale testing.
... we can prepare a Shape Expression we want to make
tom: propose to show how E12 (film festivals) might be generated from a simple spreadsheet. would appreciate feedback on idea
andra: will the audience be interested in ShEx per se?
... it's the last session. do we make them do hands-on or just listen?
Tom: precious little time for hands-on. maybe better to listen. what are the pain points? would easier interfaces help?
Andra: there's a SPARQL table where volunteers write SPARQL for you.
... we could do the same thing.
... then use the workshop for the talks.
ericP: if we set up a table, folks might have more feedback for us on Sat afternoon


## Chair

Dimitris: haven't had the time for the last few months. agendas and attendence suffered.
... happy to remain an active member but I'll be dropping a lot of balls.
Andra: am happy to take over.
... the parties where ShEx is used aren't in this group (Chris Mungle's group, Wikidata, Labra's group)
... happy to help when you don't have the time
... but would like to be more inclusive where ShEx is being used.
Dimitris: re inclusivity, ShEx is picking up so this is a good opportunity
Andra: Q1: would you want to remain char and others back you up?
Dimitris: happy to be co-chair but don't want to be the primary.
Andra: happy to do that.

PROPOSE: Andra and Dimitris to be co-chairs with Andra taking over weekly/daily tasks

ericP: +1
Tom: +1
Kat: +1
Andra: +1
Dimitris: +1
Nishad: +1


RESOLVED

Kat: Dimitris, tx for your work as sole chair. you've been an awesome chair.
Tom: thank you Dimitris!
Dimitris: we've done a lot over the last years. thanks for all the work.
Andra: how do we keep Wikidata and GeneOntology (and Labra and Harold) engaged
ericP: everyone's busy
Andra: SPARQL 1.2 CG doesn't meet; instead they use GH Issues.
... we could maintain this meeting, but watch an Issues list.
ericP: aggregator?
Andra: active co-chair can just scan a pre-selected list of forums
... not worth the dev time right now.
ericP: makes sense


## 2.1 release
 * https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SsT3Qy20Ab3bnLiEdza_NK2BNLsbXpOOcq3QwAx5Krw/edit

 * ericP: https://rawgit.com/shexSpec/primer/extends/
