

## Telecon 2017-03-24 Minutes

Participants:Kat, Gregg, Tom, Karen, Eric, Jesse
    
Regrets: Dimitris, Harold, Andra, Jose

Scribe: Kat 

Can we publish by the end of the month?
1. We could make the claim we've closed our issues
2. Inviting public comments (doesn't require having closed all issues)

We could decide whether the Primer is ready as is, we could decide the Spec is ready as is, we want to get those done before we publish, we could agree to 24-hour review period or
delegate a few people to make calls about whether issues are ready to be closed
Eric leaning toward latter option

## Issues: - Open Issues for v2.0

### Discuss Context doesn't work for "max"-
critical, Gregg could be delegate? 

### Discuss Generalize stems to support language tags- 
Gregg and Eric could verify implementation & agree with the spec

### Discuss Use of schema start vs shapeMap-Gregg addressed this in the API section-
The API describes a result format- we need to update results to be able to provide something consistent

### Discuss ShapeMap with negative declarations- 
How likely is it we could add a shape map - a third parameter could be used- 

Gregg: Would need to describe both the shape label 
You need to restrict what you want to do to the map

Eric: Useful to be able to say The language has closure, 2.1 feature with no backwards-compatibility issue or

Gregg: hash of string to structure would be something a 2.1 could distinguish that a 2. 0 would not try tp process

Eric: That will be a 2.1 feature?

### Discuss Design a nice logo for ShEx-was another logo shared on gitter? 

### Discuss Representing top level shape references-

### Tom- status report on Primer-
Comments from Karen and Harold have been integrated
Eric has been helping with Primer
Tom and Eric feel good about most of the Primer
first impressions matter- could everyone please read abstrat, quick start, and section 2 (esp 2.1)
We have had a lot of discussion about examples and explanations as clear as possible
It would be great to get feedback from all members of the group if you see any issues with how basic technology is described
Intro sections should be jargon-free as possible, but jargon has to be introduced

Eric: Kat can you review this over the weekend

Kat: Yes, I will review

Gregg: I will review

Karen: I will review

Tom: I took Harold's suggestions - and incorporated them- there is discussion on Gitter of some of the details

**PROPOSE**: Gregg and Kat agree by Monday whether the primer should be published

**APPROVED**: Vote at https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/51

### The Spec and Test Cases
Do we want to try to get that out now?
Who will decide if the Spec also gets published?

**PROPOSE**: Gregg and ericP resolve, possibly merge, the stem branches

**APPROVED**:

The only issue we have that impacts syntax 
The Primer doesn't say anything about this topic
Do we want to add it to the Primer?
Tom: I don't see a problem with adding features to the Primer later. I don't think we should delay the Primer for this. 

Eric has composed text for the announcement of the publication of the Primer & Spec
http://piratepad.net/PgD6KEScxX
Can people who aren't on the list post to public-shex?

Tom: The description of what is in the test suite is a little confusing
Are we going to sign with our last names also?
Who will send out this announcement? Dimitris is Chair, is he willing to send it out?
Gregg will send out if Dimitris can't

Does everyone agreee that the email text is ok? Yes.

Gregg: Context doesn't work for max- -1 to indicate infinity- I propose we do that

Eric: Makes sense

**PROPOSED**: close issue-49 (max card) by using -1 to indicate unlimited

**APPROVED**:
    
Gregg: namespace- how stable is shex.io? w3c namespace -would require administrative work- purl would point to another location

Karen: I don't have a lot of faith in purl

Eric: I don't know if we can use w3c namespace

Gregg: Can you look into that? If we use the w3c namespace we're not likely to collide with anything else

Karen: I prefer w3id.org I prefer something that doesn't just redirect
     
**PROPOSED**: namespace: http://w3.org/ns/shex# fallback: w3id.org

**APPROVED**:

Eric: we have our delegation paths for publishing Mon or Tues

ADJOURN
