# ShEx Telecon 2017-03-03

Friday Mar 03rd, 16:00 CET / 10:00 ET / 07:00 PT for 1 hour
(in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20170303T16&p1=195&ah=1))

Connection details:

* Audio: http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts 
* Chat: https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/Lobby
* Minutes: https://pad.okfn.org/p/shex-cg-2


## Admin

 * Chair: Dimitris Kontokostas
 * Scribe: tba

*Next neeting*: 2017.03.17

## Agenda 

 * Open actions
   * Tom and Eric to work on demo/primer for decision in two weeks whether to publish.
   * Eric to draft something on NP-Complete cases in the spec and the primer
   * EricP to add note with example of literal passing shape with no outgoing arcs with min card > 0.
 * Progress on Primer and demo
 * Publishing of ShEx
 * [Open Issues for v2.0](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2.0)
   * Discuss [ShapeMap with negative declarations](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/37)
   * Discuss [Use of schema start vs shapeMap](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/42)
   * Discuss [Design a nice logo for ShEx](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/26)
   * Discuss [Representing top level shape references](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/38)
   * Discuss [^^-style facet arguments](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/41)
 * AOB 
 
