## Telecon 2017-09-26 Minutes

 * Participants: Dimitris, Eric, Kat, Lucas, Tom
 * Regrets:Lars

Call in Jitsi # https://meet.jit.si/ShEx
 * Chair: Dimitris
 * Scribe:Kat

last minutes: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20170915-minutes.md

Agenda:https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20170926-agenda.md

## Overview of SEMANTICS conference
 * Dimitris: Maybe we need time to discuss community outreach events- perhaps build this into our teleco
 * Dimitiris: Linked Data Quality workshop at SEMANTICS
 * ericP: Session went well- questions that were asked I could field pretty easily- someone asked if all this structure is evil. People were appreciative of having a schema language. People were interested in how it works as a process- discussing models- decreasing time spend discussing models. People were encouraged by FHIR use of ShEx.
 *  Tom: I was interested in Andra's work with the ShEx kernel. I'd like to make a JN version of the Primer.
 *  ericP: We could build out the "getting started" document. Could be a place to start.
 * Tom: JN you can define cells as Markdown, all text parts could go in Markdown cells, other cells could have data and others schemas, another way for people to view this data. Github supports viewing JN on the web.
 * Dimitris: This sounds like a good idea- might also be nice to cover different domains- Wikidata, libraries, 
 * ericP: I just put an interface where you can load examples from file, create a little file for a particular community to click through examples

## Import clarifications
 * Dimitris: IMPORT, do we need to resolve other 

http://rawgit.com/shexSpec/shex.js/wikidata/doc/shex-simple.html?examples=http://shex.io/examples/import/UserEmpCo-examples.json
http://shex.io/examples/import/UserEmpCo-examples.json  <---- didn't load for me

* ericP: I think I've neglected to renew shex.io- I'd like to turn this over to the community- 
* Dimitris: I made a couple of comments on the IMPORT topic. I made comments directly on the commit- did you see them?
* ericP: When we are doing an import what happens when they are empty? What if RDF is irrelevant to ShEx or it is an empty document? Spec just says resolve it. What is the behavior that we want? I would propose that if A imports B and B is not accessible- then I would say you can't use A for validation. 
* Dimitris: This sounds like a reasonable approach.
* ericP: I wanted to be able to round-trip schemas that have imports in them- since they are still separate schemas- we could say the set of working schemas is in an inconsistent state and the results of validatation can not be defined

**PROPOSED**: if an imported schema does not resolve to a ShEx , the set of *working schemas* is in an inconsistent state and the results of validation are not defined.

ericP: +1
Kat: +1
Dimitris: +1
Tom: +1

**RESOLVED** 

* ericP:or you get back an HTML document and you don't know what to do with it. Does not resolve to a ShEx schema. Is an empty RDF document a ShEx schema- it is not because our definition has to match the JSONLD- so this covers it.
* Dimitris: When you IMPORT and you have the same shape- because if it is RDF if things merge you get a UNION, but this is a different type of IMPORT
* ericP: The reason for that is you may need to override or extend for schemas that you are importing. If we get there we will need this more robust semantics.
* Dimitris: Then do we also want to define the order of imports? Doesn't matter yet.
* ericP: 2 places where order would matter:  when you have multiple start definitions, or multiple start actions. Right now both are illegal.
* https://rawgit.com/shexSpec/spec/import/index.html#import

##Very Large Data conference - Wikidata hackathon
* ericP: Spend a couple of days on infrastructure that could be available in Wikidata- would be nice to put together a package.
* Dimitris: You could create an external tool/ Gadget/ on WMF infrastructure
* Lucas: There are serveral options for how to do these- you can even have your own server 
* ericP: What is the most productive path forward? If people could edit shex schemas for communities- then they could have community maintained models and data.
* Lucas: So that would need to be on Wikidata itself
* ericP: practical data quality surveillance tool
* Lucas: user namespace for now, then it could be migrated later
* Dimitris: WIkidata already has some constraints

https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property_talk:P17
https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P17

* Dimitris: Are the constraints enforced?
* Lucas: Yes, that is what I'm working on. 
  * checked by gadget when viewing an entity page: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Help:Property_constraints_portal
  * periodic checks by community member, results at https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:Database_reports/Constraint_violations

* ericP: Does it make sense to provide ShEx tooling alongside the Constraint system? Bulk import of constraints into ShEx where it could be expressed in an unambiguous way.
* Dimitris: OWL like constraints- on the predicate- 
* ericP: Are these global?
* ericP: When we do bulk import- capture prop constraints through query map- it seems like it will capture existing constraints- communities can tune constraints for their needs- 
* Lucas: A file that exists on Commons, is an example of constraints that might not be able to be represented in ShEx
* ericP: This would be nice place for extension mechanism- this is an existing file, etc. More fun= implementations could support this and make it so Wikidata could use whatever tool they wanted.
* Lucas: serveral wikiprojects have maintenance queries- could be an alternative to that
* ericP: I renewed Shex.io

* Tom: thereâ€™s precedent for DCMI holding(?) a domain in the case of FOAF via community agreement. could do similar thing for shex.io if it makes sense - see http://www.dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-foaf/  - every year, Dan and Tom issue a one-page report confirming the agreement and reporting on status.

## Actions
 * **ACTION**: Tom to follow up with EricP re: possible applicability of DCMI/FOAF agreement to ShEx.
 * **ACTION**: Eric  fix the lang-tag issue
 * **ACTION**: Eric  work on a prototype for extending shapes

* Kat: Silvio put info about the cardinalities for the OpenCitationsModel:  https://github.com/shexSpec/schemas/blob/master/Wikidata/OpenCitiationsModel/OpenCitationsModelCardinalities.png

