## Telecon Jan 20th 2017 Minutes

Participants: ericP, Johan, Dimitris, Gregg, Jesse, Iovka, Karen

Scribe: ericP

### Topic: Introduction

Dimitris: I'm Dimitris Konokostas, PHD student at Leipzig

ericP: 

Johan van Soest: PHD in clinical radiotherapy (Maastricht, Netherlands) but using ShEx within the clinical research facility

Gregg Kellogg: had folks asking for ShEx in Ruby RDF library. Got more invovled with than expected. Worked on JSON-LD. Implemented most RDF serialziation formats.

Jesse van Damme: PHD university of @@1. creating descriptions of genomic data strucutures. working on a code generator to generate OWL and ShEx. I use RDF when I have something that does closed-worlld validation.

Iovka Boneva: University of Lille. ericP came to us with questions about semantics. been invovled for 2 years. Interested in defining the semantics of extensions.
Karen Coyle: refugee from the SHACL group representing Dublin Core. Want to integrate ShEx into Application Profiles and make them actionable.

## Topic: ShEx status & roadmap

ericP: The goal with shex was to provide an intuitive, human-readable representation for RDF data description. We started with Resouce Shapes and adding "OR", that was ShEx 1. There was feature creep, and I needed more. Shex 2 grew out of the need for more expresivity. I contacted Iovka and Lille and found out how it was being used. We tried to get people in the SHACL group, but there wasn't a good fit, thus the CG. At this point we have a Tutorial, that needs work, and some more sections that have been added since it was written. We have a spec that captures most of ShEx, but not a good one on parsing. The abstract syntax is also a concrete syntax. We're using both ShExC and ShExJ in FHIR. The JSON representation is used to transver from the FHIR structure to ShExJ.

ericP: We have a short list of 2.0 release issues, linked in the agenda.

ericP: We have a list of features to resoved befor 2.0. There are backwards compatiable features. This does not include backwards incompatibility, and nothing in 2.x is backwards incompatbile with anything earlier. The isssues related to bugs, two issues related to the semantics of the language. THe main barrior between now and 2.0 is finishing the spec and asking for review.

ericP: There's a proposed resolution to change ShExJ to be compatible with JSON-LD. I (and Gregg) have both made our engines work with this using the LD branch of the test-suite. We should descide about this shortly.

Dimitris: We could discuss this.

ericP: Future features are things we'd like to do in a future version of ShEx, including value comparisons, unique indexes. The proposal is that we have a partitioin between 2.0 and 2.1. If you look through 2.1 and decide we need it in 2.0, we can discuss; the hope is that we will be able to do 2.1 in about two months.

ericP: The test-suite has about 350 schema files and 700-800 tests. It follows the W3C convention for describing tests. We have tree implementations so far that have provided EARL reports, I know there are more coming. This is an opportunity to tell the world that their platform is supported.

Johan: Are the test real cases

ericP: If you have an example where it doesn't work, we should update the spec. We don't have large examples such as a real-world shape. Typically, if some implementation doesn't work, we'd add a test.

## Topic: Community infrastructure
### Messaging: Gitter, Skype, Slack, IRC

Dimitris: [introduces Gitter]
RESOLVED: use Gitter

### Wiki: Github repo, W3C Wiki

Dimitris: There was already a W3C Wiki.

**RESOLVED: use W3C wiki after Jesse and ericP clean up old junk.**

### Telecon software: Jit.si (current), DCMI options, Hangouts

Jit.si, Hangouts, Appear.in, carrier pigeon

### Meeting timing

proposed meeting alternate weeks
**RESOLVED**

### Group (co)chair: nominations

Dimitris: I was assigned as a temporary chair. Who wants the job?
Anyone who wants to nominate themselves or someone else can send email and we can resolve during the next meeting.

## ShEx v2.0 introduction

ericP: Recent developments, since Iovka and Slav told us how ShEx works: we've ha a lot test-suite development, external shapes. The ability to have shape labels on any shape expression, including "Shapes", "Node Constraints", or ANd/Or combiniations. THat allows a value-set we can reference over and over. Any operation you can run can be given a label. Another piece is external shapes, used mostly when you have a non-computable dataset (e.g., large medical terminology). Other than that, the main development has been creating a spec, and trying to capture the semantics in a way an engineer can implement from.

Greg: low effort to implement

ericP: (OWL vs. ShEx) what's happening in FHIR, we're using both OWL and ShEx. By example, and employee has two parents, which can be captured in OWL, but you wouldn't exhaustively list them  in ShEx. Shapes typically draw on more than one ontology, so there isn't a tool you can stick OWL into and get out ShEx reliably, because you assume that everyone has two parents, for example, and that does not terminate.

Jesse: once you activate ShEx validation, everything has to be typed. Once the type in determined, then that shape is applied to that type.

ericP: do you see that affecting the ShEx spec or test suite?

Jesse: I see it simplifying the spec because we can lean on the OWL.

## Open tasks for feedback

Dimitris: We have two main items here

### JSON-LD graphs

Eric: There was a json structure to help  define the language and machine generated shape expressions. When Grep tried to implement ShEx said that this is very close to JSON-LD and with very minor changes in the json stricure and a @context we easily became compatible. Main change was in literals and maps. Literals are fixed, maps are in progress.

Gregg: There's a CG working on JSON-LD 1.1 with an IDmap. There's been a discussion of working on JSON-LD structures.
... Intuitively, anything can have an identifier. We may want to unify our IDs.
... If we look at this as Linked Data, we don't need ShapeRef, but that's more of an upset.

Iokka, being able to reference a shape that is elsewhere is a good idea, but because of negation and recursion, we need to see the schema as a whole.

Gregg: I wasn't thinkinig of anything outside of the document.
... If you consider 2 shapes that referencce a 3rd, we could have the 3rd embedded in the 1st and still referenced from the 2nd.

Jesse: I encountered this issue 2 years ago when trying to go from JSON and back

ericP: a 2.1 feature is "accessors", which allows for a label on any production. We should discuss this when we're doing accessors, and allow production labels anywhere. That also is consistent with it being a 2.x version, as it doesn't give backwards-incompatibility with 2.0.

Jesse: it's important to understand how we define the framing.

ericP: The attribute we're using for label identifiers in in the "accessors" branch, is the same as we're using to record labels for nodes in the JSON-LD representation. The thing called "uris" is gone, and we're closser to a single attribute.

ericP: we made it so you could label any node set, which includes a valueSet (not in the Primer).

Dimitris: do we want to migrate to LD?

**Proposal: Integrate JSON-LD branch in ShEx v2.0 https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest/tree/ld/schemas**

ericP: +1

gkellogg: +1

iovka: +1

Jesse: +1

Johan: +1

Dimitris: +1

**Resolved: Integrate JSON-LD branch in ShEx v2.0 https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest/tree/ld/schemas**

### Feedback on sections 1-4

Dimitris: Everyone read the spec andprovide feedback

