# ShEx Telecon 2017-02-17

Friday Feb 17rd, 16:00 CET / 10:00 ET / 07:00 PT for 1 hour
(in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20170217T16&p1=195&ah=1))

Connection details:

* Audio: http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts 
* Chat: https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/Lobby
* Minutes: https://pad.okfn.org/p/shex-cg-2


## Admin

 * Chair: Dimitris Kontokostas
 * Scribe: tba

*Next neeting*: 2017.03.03

## Agenda 

 * New member introductions (Lars G. Svensson / Deutsche Nationalbibliothek)
 * Open tasks
   * Issue tracking workflow
   * Feedback on section 1-4 of the spec
 * Issue tracking & discussion
   * Discuss & finalise the proposed [process for submitting & resolving issues](https://www.w3.org/2001/sw/wiki/ShEx#Submitting_.26_resolving_issues_.28under_discussion.29)
 * Specification publishing requirements
   * Open tasks / issues ([Technical](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2.0))
   * Open tasks / issues (spec)
     * Should 2.0 mention ShExR or just imply it with the @context on ShExJ?
     * Should 2.0 have an appendix discussing NP-Complete cases?
   * Discuss on publishing a draft
 * [Technical issues](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2.0)
   * Discuss & close [Should a shape imply NONLITERAL?](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/13)
   * Discuss & close [ShapeRef and Inclusion redundant in RDF representation](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/22#issuecomment-276995266)
   * Discuss & close [Cardinalities on includes](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/35#issuecomment-280249065)
   * Discuss & close [ShapeMap definition in the spec](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/36#issuecomment-280247450)
 * AOB 
