
## Telecon 2017-07-07 Minutes

 * Participants:  Gregg, Lucas, Kat, Eric, Jose, Andra
 * Regrets: Tom, Harold, Jesse, Dimitris

Call in Hangouts # https://zoom.us/j/307686876
 * Chair: ericP
 * Scribe:Lucas

Agenda: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20170707-agenda.md

http://rawgit.com/shexSpec/spec/separate-APIs/index.html#dfn-fixed-shapemap

## Status of ShapeMap:

diddn't need to publish last week.
Propose adopt change in separate-APIs branch of the spec and publish both at same time
http://rawgit.com/shexSpec/spec/separate-APIs/index.html#dfn-fixed-shapemap
only the bit of ShapeMaps that’s necessary for spec, align with ShapeMap document
    
rename: Node, Shape → NodeSelector, ShapeLabel
publish early next week along with ShapeMap spec

#### PROPOSED: adopt separate-APIs branch of the spec, after adding normative ref to ShapeMap, and publish with ShapeMap spec
      http://rawgit.com/shexSpec/spec/separate-APIs/index.html#dfn-fixed-shapemap

 * kat: +1
 * gkellogg: +1
 * Lucas: +1
 * ericP: +1
 * andra: +1
 * labra: +1

**APPROVED**

ShapeMaps are kept simple: only node or single triple pattern (minimal, non-controversial)

## Issue 68: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/68

language tags in a value set match any string literal with a matching language tag
abstract syntax did not have a way to convey that
issue addressed, test cases for “basic cases” added
branch: https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest/compare/language-value

#### PROPOSED: adopt language-value branch of shexTest and make accompanying schema changes to shexspec.github.io and the spec parsing rules  

 * kat: +1
 * gkellogg: +1
 * ericP: +1
 * labra: +1
 * Lucas: +1
 * Andra: +1

**APPROVED**

remaining open issues for 2.0 are all for IDL – proposal: move to 2.1
publish spec and ShapeMap first, follow up with API document later
no disagreement


## discussing 2.1 issues:
    “unique” – very expensive operation
    #47 can be done with unique keys (#2?)
    #4 – question to Jose: do language tags and language ranges(?) address this? – yes, can be closed

**CLOSED shexSpec/spec#4**


 * Jose: would like to know opinion on #67 – RDF representation of ShapeMaps
(remember: ShapeMaps can be query shapemaps, fixed shapemaps, or resolved shapemaps – RDF representation could be of any or all of those)
 * Gregg: JSON → JSON-LD → RDF
anyone who wants this in first release of ShapeMap? no
question to Kat, Lucas: would RDF representation be helpful?
 * Kat: I don't feel like I know enough to answer
 * Lucas: probably not

shexR hasn’t been used much yet either, but if anyone sees a use case, comment in the issue ( https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/67 )

Dimitris wanted to discuss ShEx+SHACL compared, but isn’t here

 * Kat: Is there a link to the ShEx/ SHACL draft mentioned in the agenda? (link shared in appear.in chat – protected google doc, shared with the interested parties)

Anything left to discuss?

Adjourned.
