
## Telecon 2017-06-23 Minutes

 * Participants: Tom, Dimitris, Gregg, Jesse, Kat, Andra, Eric
 * Regrets: Lars

Call in Zoom # https://zoom.us/j/307686876
 * Chair: Dimitris
 * Scribe:Kat

Agenda: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/blob/master/meetings/20170623-agenda.md

## ShEx Micro Tutorial
 * Tom: Eric and Tom created microtutorial to support beginners learning about ShEx. Click to validate has verbose and compact options
Looking for feedback about the interface
Would be helpful to have more schemas to use in the interface
 * Eric: Cut-down version of shex-simple interface, added shapemaps, mostly in sync with shapemap document in the agenda
 * Dimitris: UI perspective- maybe add interactive interface to show you what you can do to do a test
 * Eric: Tom mentioned something similar- that would involve some custom-work- I could be convinced to do it, might also be worth being visible on public-rdf-shapes
 * Eric: Tom- what are the next steps
 * Tom: Put in more examples, if we had more explanation on the right-hand side it could be helpful
 * Jesse: Set of examples that explain feature-by-feature what is available
 * Eric: That is a very different type of tutorial. As it is currently it supports schemas that have been pre-packaged, so a different style of tutorial and a different interface would be better for a feature by feature tutorial. 
Maybe if we get more examples in, the audience is people who won't be there for a full tutorial. People who will only be reviewing the tutorial quickly. This was meant to illustrate why shape maps are useful and how they are used
 * Tom: SHapemaps portion could be beefed up a bit

##  Remaining actions for ShEx 2.0
 * Dimitris: We should wrap up ShEx 2.0 fairly soon. Try to release in a few weeks.
 * Eric: Good if we can get shexmap stuff out in a week as a draft, then everything else in a few weeks.
 * Dimitris: Logo issue, we should also make a twitter hashtag, IDL keep it or only shapemap for now, also some issues on main spec
 * Eric: There are issues with negation, also needed for test suite- missing negation and value expressions, I will do the negation tests with someone else, we should be able to get stratified negation tests ready so the spec can go out. It involves writing tests and reviewing text about static analysis that is in the spec.
 * Jesse: I want to create a test case involving recursion.
 * Eric: Those are the cases that stratified negation will get at
 * Dimitris: Check the messages from PPS on the shapemaps list

## Shapemap spec (https://shexspec.github.io/ShapeMap/)
 * Eric: New version as of 20 mins ago, document only includes generic notion of a shapemap, you can also have 3 attributes, but does not specify compact syntax, does not use prefix names or relative IRIs
 * Eric: There may be errors in it, would be good to have a review, this is part of the ShEx story that we need to have ready
 * Jesse: Will the IDL be a separate document?
 * Eric: Gregg wasn't here in the last meeting
 * Gregg: I'm fine with it
 * Eric: There is a separate APIs branch of the spec. 
 * Dimitris: Who will review or co-author this with Eric?
 * Eric: I'd like Gregg to help with respec 

ACTION: review shapemap before next meeting

 * Eric: Give somebody the go/no go decision on it being a draft publication for the community group- 
 * Dimitris: How do others feel about being ready in a week?
 * Jesse: Did they solve their pre-binding problems?
 * Dimitris: There was no public discussion about this.
 * Eric: There are 3 implementations of SHACL core- two are SHACLSPARQL
 * Jesse: How far is the comparison document?
 * Dimitris: Once we finish the tasks in progress we will make a github issue and then we can have people vote in the github issue
 * Eric: That works
 * Dimitris: About shapemap definition order: now it is node then shape, right now you have to repeat shape everytime. I suggested to reverse the order- like this you could embed shapemaps directly into shapes
 * Eric: It would take a couple of hours of tweaking if we change our mind about the order. My reason for doing node then shape analagous to @shape . If we had a keyword introducing them we wouldn't have to change the order. 
 * Gregg: I'm sure I'll care about it when I get to the point of making things work
 * Gregg: I've come across a number of grammar issues, I need to make sure I can parse this before we settle on what we think the grammar needs to be
 * Eric: We can publish and change our minds later on
 * Dimitris: Or we could publish as "ready for review"
 * Jesse: Should have a table of all implementations and what they implement, if you have this page
 * Eric: I don't think we will be able to get test cases out in a week
 * Dimitris: Let's mark it as open for review as a working draft

## ILD
 * Gregg: The main reason I pushed for IDL was not to get into details of promises, there was not other description of what it means to have a start, or what the map was, there was a lot that was left, used this to determine the semantics of a shape on a graph. We could proably take out the hard bits of the IDL, replace with something less formal
 * Eric: It is my hope to still publish IDL, but as a separate document- mocked up in separate APIs branch that you can see in rawgit
 * Jesse: For 2.0 we could do a simple IDL and then the more complex later
 * Dimitris: 4 variations
 * Jesse: async stateless
 * Dimitris: So a separate spec?
 * Jesse: yes

ACTION: Eric will volunteer to work on separate spec

##StemRange https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/64
 * Dimitris: RDF order is not always the same, eric suggested we put these in a list to preserve order

**PROPOSAL**: vote on issue #64 by changing exclusions to be a list.

 * Kat: +1
 * Andra: +1
 * Jesse: +1
 * Dimitris: +1
 * Tom: +1
 * Gregg: +1

RESOLVED

## ShEx logo (link?)https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/26

##Twitter hashtag
 * Dimitris: Most often used is #ShEx - https://twitter.com/search?q=%23shex&src=typd
Let's use a hashtag consistently, and promote it on our homepage
 * Gregg: I think #ShEx is the most natural, I don't think twitter hashtags are case insensitive
 * Tom: It would be good to promote for camel case, so that we can disambiguate in the future


Dimitris: **Consensus to use #ShEx**

## Issue 14 (https://github.com/shexSpec/shex.js/issues/14)

ACTION: Jesse will put the recursion loophole issue 14 into the test suite

## ShEx and SHACL Compared - draft
 * Dimitris: What is the goal? Who is the audience? Publish as CG? Try to get consensus with SHACL and jointly publish?
 * Andra: Is this the slide deck from LinkedIn?
 * Dimitris: Based on that there is a googledoc
 * Tom: I think publishing something as a draft and then inviting SHACL input is a good idea. If we make SHACL input a pre-condition it could delay the process. When people are comfortable with the content it should go public.
 * Dimitris: I'll discuss with Jose, maybe we can share with community group before the next meeting.
 * Eric: The slides have been helpful to 

 * Andra: There will be a conference WIkidataCon- paper on ShEx- maybe workshop or hackathon
https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:WikidataCon_2017/Program/Submit

We will not be able to use Zoom for the next meeting- we will use Hangouts instead
 * Eric: http://appear.in/shex is another option
