# ShEx Telecon 2017-04-14

Friday April 14rd, 16:00 CET / 10:00 ET / 07:00 PT for 1 hour (in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20170414T16&p1=195&ah=1))

Connection details:

* Audio: [Webex](https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M8UZYRTWYJVPMQ7UMX4B8Q7HNH-JV0D&rnd=444697.95318
) (US TOLL: +1-415-655-0001 / 
Meeting Number:194 817 445)
  * backup in case WebEx fails: [Hangouts](http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts)
* Minutes: https://pad.okfn.org/p/shex-cg-2

## Admin

 * Chair: Dimitris Kontokostas

*Next neeting*: 2017.04.27

## Agenda 
 * Open actions
   * Dimitris to draft comparison between ShEx & SHACL (delayed)
 * Discuss about shapes repository
 * [Open Issues for v2.0](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2.0)
   * Discuss [ShExJ LanguageStem should be STRING instead of ObjectLiteral](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/54)
   * Discuss [Does data type or language make sense in stems?](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/55)
   * Discuss [updates to ShExJ @context](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/56)
   * Discuss [Update Antlr grammar to be in synch with the recent changes in BNF](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/39)
   * Discuss [Design a nice logo for ShEx](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/26)
 * [Open Issues for v2.1](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2.1)
   * Discuss Language tag constraints in [#47](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/47) and [#4](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/4)
 * AOB 
