## Telecon Feb 17th 2017 Minutes

Participants: Dimitris, Tom, Eric, Andra, Lars, Harold
    
Regrets: Gregg Kellogg, Jose Emilio Labra Gayo

Scribe: Tom

### Topic: Introductions

Dimitris: New member, Lars Svensson

Lars: Work for German Natl Library, Linked Data strategist. Interested in Shape Expressions due to work with RDF validation and application profiles.  Want to learn more, possibly later contribute to work team.

### Feedback on Section 1 to 4

Eric: Jose raised issues, I tried to address.  Not too many fundamental changes.  Think I nailed the issues.

### How to handle issues

Dimitris: The task was to draft a workflow for issues.  Open for feedback. Anyone can open an issue, but to close, we need to verify that people agree.  So when issue is about to be closed, people use Github reactions to vote.  After one week, issue is resolved.
https://www.w3.org/2001/sw/wiki/ShEx#Submitting_.26_resolving_issues_.28under_discussion.29

Eric: Makes sense.  If you look at open issues...
  open issues: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2.0
If you look at first one - https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/36 - lists people we are expecting attention from.  Just want to know: did all the right people notice it?

Dimitris: If anyone reacts with '-1', we put on agenda.  Objections?

**PROPOSAL: The ShEx CG will use the issue workflow as defined  in https://www.w3.org/2001/sw/wiki/ShEx#Submitting_.26_resolving_issues_.28under_discussion.29**

ericP: +1
Tom: +1
Dimitris: +1
Andra +1
Harold 0 (Haven't had a chance to look at it)
LarsG: 0 (I'm not familiar with all of this yet...)

**RESOLVED: The ShEx CG will use the issue workflow as defined  in https://www.w3.org/2001/sw/wiki/ShEx#Submitting_.26_resolving_issues_.28under_discussion.2**

Dimitris: we can always refine it later.  Next topic, main topic...:
    
### What required to publish
    
Dimitris: Wait and publish final version?  Or publish draft and wait for feedback.
    
Eric: Tempted to get work on Primer.  We are coming from behind.  We have a sounder language because of compact syntax and JSON representation, but I feel like our best way to introduce ourselves to the world, best to put Primer forward.

Harold: There is confusion about ShEx/SHACL.  The sooner we get some sort of statement out there that ShEx is still alive.

Tom: Two weeks ago Eric and I were looking at the demo and I suggested to simplify it and craft a very short, quick & simple  view of ShEx. The demo doesn;t have to show everythig ShEx can do. I can create a very short primer document in connection with the demo. They can interact with the demo can see the relation between RDF, ShEx and validation results. If demo could have a drop down to switch between ShEx representations, very very simple examples etc. Showcase the base components of ShEx and show that are interchangeable formats. This also helps with harold's concern which I understand. If we aim too high we loose focus. Focus on flow / components not on functionality.. If the demo is there I can easily work on th eprimer

Eric: do you want to work with on a primer / demo me for a week? Show something to the group next Friday?

Tom: Next Friday, or next call?

Harold: Want to get something out there that shows it works, the happier my communities will be?

Eric: Two weeks okay?

Harold: Fine!

Eric: Tom, you and I work next week, try to get something for two weeks from now.  Other question: Should we ask people at that time to look at the spec?  Will it be in good enough shape?  Expected answer: yes.

Dimitris: yes, action.

[ACTION](#demo-primer): Tom and Eric to work on demo/primer for decision in two weeks whether to publish.

Dimitris: Idea that every issue should be displayed visually in the spec.  I saw three issues, more like open questions.  Maybe we can track them better.  ShExR issue: so far, hasn't had RDF representation, only compact syntax, then switched to JSON-LD.  Should we say that ShEx has RDF representn based on JSON-LD?  If we say so, would need to say more about it.

Eric: We had a JSON representation, Gregg made it JSON-LD, so we have an RDF representn.  ShExR to ShExJ works.  Has been verified by testing ShEx to ShExR.  So I think we're in good shape w.r.t having an RDF representn.  If we have this and have specified, do we have documentation about ShExR - about when you write in Turtle instead of JSON-LD.

Harold: Is there one RDF representn or two?  What is the impact of the introduction of context on ShExJSG - it still exists?  So it exists and the question is whether it needs to be documented beyond saying there is a context.  I'd suggest we take the path of minimum effort for now.  See if people care enough about ShExR to pay attention to it.

Eric: Until anyone has an issue, not clear why documenting.

Harold: So if someone comes up with an interesting use...

Eric: In the spec, you can change btw ShExR and ShExC.  Some things you cannot do with ShExC.  We could put ShExR into the spec too.

Harold: Semantics will be in ShExJ?

Eric: Yes, says it serves as abstract syntax?

Harold: How far are we in defining semantics in terms of ShExJ?

Eric: Semantics are done.  I'm working on the parser.  Four is done.  The bit missing: the parsing stuff, C into J.  Needs addl eyes.

Harold: I'm halfway thru Python implementation.

Tom: Should ShExR be in demo?

Harold: Sure, say it exists, but not spend time on it now.

Eric: Can add it in easily.  

Dimitris: Do we say it is an RDF representation or RDFS vocabulary?

Eric: The fact that you have a representation expressed in a vocabulary - merely a means to an end.  Propose we leave document as is in terms of defining ShExC and J, and add switches to R as well, but not have a section specifying the RDF representation.

**Proposal: ShEx will mention that there is an RDF representation of ShEx that is a result of the JSON representation and a JSON-LD context and nothing more**

ericP: +1
Harold: +1
Tom: +1
Dimitris : +1
LarsG: +1
Andra: +1

**Resolved: ShEx will mention that there is an RDF representation of ShEx that is a result of the JSON representation and a JSON-LD context and nothing more**

Tom: at some point we should say more about the open world interpretation of a ShEx graph, and why such an interpretation matters (or not)?

### NP-Complete cases

Eric: Iovka can give us a pathological case.  Shoveling alot of coal into the processor.  I don't think that should necessarily go into a spec.  Does OWL?

Harold: That's its core, so there's an entire document on variants and their computational complexity.  Worth a section: "we recognize there are certain situations where your computer will get really hot and this is why we think thats okay" and get Iovka to fill it in.  If we can characterize the set of things that do it, we can encourage people not to do it.

Eric: In the spec we notice it can be NP-Complete.  In the Primer: "don't go to far here".  One sentence at top of section on Shapes semantics: link to section in Primer: "note that partitioning can be an NP-Complete problem in the worst case" with link to Primer.  Doesn't seem like part of spec to have pathological cases, but useful for people.  I can try to draft a sentence under Shapes Semantics and section in Primer.  We have to get Iovka's attn.

Dimitris: Agree?  Put in appendix? Eric's suggestion?

[ACTION](#NP): Eric to draft something on NP-Complete cases in the spec and the primer

Dimitris: Close issues now, in last ten minutes?

### Issue 35

Eric: "Cardinalities on includes" -- https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/35

Dimitris: Comment from Jose: putting cardinalities on top doesn't make sense.

Eric: When we switched to JSON-LD, cardinality on inclusions went away.  No use cases for extra complexity.  Jose spotted but found a workaround that doesn't require cardinality.  Think that keeping it simple will pay off.  I propose to close.  Jose, myself, and Gregg were the interested parties.  I think we have their approval.

**PROPOSAL: close #35 as proposed in  https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/35#issuecomment-280249065

ericP: +1
Harold: +1
Dimitris: +1
Tom: +1
LarsG: +1
Andra: +1

**RESOLVED : close #35 as proposed in  https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/35#issuecomment-280249065

### Issue 13

Eric: Case where all things were optional (Min=0).  If you want to say that something is a literal, can say in ShEx.  Dimitris had proposed this become a Lint issue.  Tool that saw that all outgoing arcs are ... -- originally advocating that shape be defined as non-literal, but now think this can be handled by Lint tool.


Harold: "Some day a lint will exist" - are we going to address it right now or not?  Unless lint is part of the spec, not sure it is worth putting as a solution.  Agree with the decision but think it needs to be documented somewhere unexpected things, and if someone writes [lint] someday, great.

Eric: How about a "note": [proposes wording].

Harold: Good.

**PROPOSAL: close #13 as proposed in https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/13#issuecomment-280250179 and adding a note with an example on the spec

ericP: +1
Harold: +1
Tom: +1
Andra: +1
LarsG: +1
Dimitris: +1

**RESOLVED: close #13 as proposed in https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/13#issuecomment-280250179 and adding a note with an example on the spec

**[ACTION](#literalshape): ericP to add note with example of literal passing shape with no outgoing arcs with min card > 0.

Meeting adjourned - continue offline with new workflow.

Lars: regrets for March 3.
