# ShEx Telecon 2017-10-10

Tuesday October 10th, 16:00 CET / 10:00 ET / 07:00 PT for 1 hour (in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20171010T16&p1=195&ah=1))
Connection details:

* Audio: [jit.si](https://meet.jit.si/ShEx) (backup with [Hangouts](http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts))
* Minutes: https://pad.okfn.org/p/shex-cg-2

## Admin

 * Chair: Dimitris Kontokostas
 * regrets: _

*Next meeting*: Oct 24th 2017

## Pending Actions
 * Tom to follow up with EricP re: possible applicability of DCMI/FOAF agreement to ShEx.
 * Eric  work on a prototype for extending shapes
 * Eric  fix the lang-tag issue
   * => Pull Request [17](https://github.com/shexSpec/spec/pull/17) and [23](https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest/pull/23)
 
## Agenda
 * Community updates
   * ShEx @ Wikidata conference
 * Discuss [ShEx Ruby DSL](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-shex/2017Oct/0000.html)
 * Prioritize new ShEx 2.1 features
 * [Open Issues for v2.1](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2.1)
   * [#72](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/72) Trailing dots in prefixed names
   * [#71](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/73) language stem should respect langMatches semantics.
   * [#73](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/73) Round tripping language tags case
   * UNIQUE keys [#2](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/2)
   * Support for RDF Collections (lists) [#17](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/17)
 * AOB 
