# ShEx Telecon 2017-10-24

Tuesday October 24th, 16:00 CET / 10:00 ET / 07:00 PT for 1 hour (in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20171024T16&p1=195&ah=1))
Connection details:

* Audio: [jit.si](https://meet.jit.si/ShEx) (backup with [Hangouts](http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts))
* Minutes: https://pad.okfn.org/p/shex-cg-2

## Admin

 * Chair: Dimitris Kontokostas
 * regrets: Kat

*Next meeting*: Nov 7th 2017

## Pending Actions
 * Eric  work on a prototype for extending shapes
 * @Everyone vote on [Round tripping language tags case #73](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/73)

 
## Agenda
 * Community updates
   * 1h ShEx tutorial @Wikidata Con 2017 [entry](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:WikidataCon_2017/Submissions/Using_Shape_Expressions_for_data_quality_and_consistency_in_Wikidata) - [material](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PY2MIz_sx3n5S1w0kCgOhjtoDBlcBb7rt9v2Jz_hBEs/edit#heading=h.3a4zl5pk9ivx)
   * Andra's ShEx sublime package: https://github.com/andrawaag/Shex_Sublime_package
 * Discuss Lar's [primer feedback](https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/issues/10)
 * Discuss [No way to say "any language-tagged string" #74](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/74)
 * Prioritize new ShEx 2.1 features
   * proposal for using github voting for selecting candidate features
 * Discuss ShEx DSL / ShEx embedding in documents
   * related: [Greg's ShEx Ruby DSL](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-shex/2017Oct/0000.html), [Karen's ShEx embedding email](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-shex/2017Oct/0008.html)
 * [Open Issues for v2.1](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2.1)
   * UNIQUE keys [#2](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/2)
   * Support for RDF Collections (lists) [#17](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/17)
 * AOB 
