# ShEx Telecon 2017-11-07

Tuesday November 7th, 16:00 CET / 10:00 ET / 07:00 PT for 1 hour (in [Other timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=ShEx+CG&iso=20171107T16&p1=195&ah=1))
Connection details:

* Audio: [jit.si](https://meet.jit.si/ShEx) (backup with [Hangouts](http://tinyurl.com/ShEx-hangouts))
* Minutes: https://pad.okfn.org/p/shex-cg

## Admin

 * Chair: Eric Prud'hommeaux
 * regrets: Dimitris

*Next meeting*: Nov 21th 2017

## Pending Actions
 * Eric  work on a prototype for extending shapes
 * Dimitris to investigate on Confluence requirements extraction (for ShEx on MarkDown)
   * (not suitable for ShEx, [custom page template creation](https://confluence.atlassian.com/doc/blog/2015/08/how-to-document-product-requirements-in-confluence))
 * Eric to make a syntactic sugar suggestion for issue "[No way to say "any language-tagged string" #74](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/74)"

 
## Agenda
 * Community updates
   * Updates from DCMI sessions
   * Updates on @Wikidata Con 2017 session
 * Discuss ShEx DSL / ShEx embedding in documents
 * [Open Issues for v2.1](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A2.1)
 * AOB 
