## Telecon 2017-03-03 Minutes

Participants: Dimitris, Tom, Eric, Kat, Michael, Gregg, Andra, Jose Labra, Harold
    
Regrets: 

Scribe: Michael

### Introductions

Kat Thornton - Digital Preservation at the Yale library.
  volunteer contributer to wikidata. liked how Andra was using ShEx to model and wanted to apply the same for cultural heritage data.

Michael - Fraunhofer Institute FIT. I worked with ericP on Prototypes.
  This goes away from typical class-based KR.
  In Prototypes, we need something similar to ShEx. Postdoc of Stefan Decker.  

### Open Actions

Dimitris: Action on Eric to draft something on NP-Complete cases on the spec and primer
 
 Eric: two artifactrs one on the Spec: https://shexspec.github.io/spec/#triple-expressions-semantics "https://shexspec.github.io/spec/#triple-expressions-semantics" and one on the primer
   http://shex.io/primer/#partition-complexity

 Eric: Spec mentions partitioning, but strategies for avoiding complexity are in the primer.
 
 Dimitris: Can someone proofread this? Action: Andra proofread: (Spec: https://shexspec.github.io/spec/#triple-expressions-semantics "https://shexspec.github.io/spec/#triple-expressions-semantics" and one on the primer   http://shex.io/primer/#partition-complexity)

[ACTION](#proofread1) Andra to proof-read Eric's text on NP-Complete

Dimitris: About the other action "EricP to add note with example of literal passing shape with no outgoing arcs with min card > 0."

ericP: described in http://shexspec.github.io/primer/#empty-shape

[ACTION](#proofread2) Jose to proof-read this section

### Progress on Primer and demo

Dimitris: Primer progress was an action on Tom and Eric but dedicated a separate item in the agenda on this.

ericP: propsed new section in Primer: https://rawgit.com/shexSpec/primer/tomedits/index.html#quickStart
  Tom proposed some text to be injected into the Primer: https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/blob/tomedits/Text-to-add.txt

Tom: we started with simplications to the rawgit demo interface and how to load canned examples into that demonstrator.
  ericP make some simplifications and improvements.
  He added a button next to the examples in the Primer to autoload them into the demo.
  
Gregg: Could use additional explanation after the validation happens

EricP: Wanted to keep the description in the Primer

Harold: Could this be changed to open in a new window?

EricP: Trying to follow W3C practices such as not popping up extra windows unless the user asks for it

Gregg: When you do pop it up, th eimplication is you're going to run the validation, so I'd expect to see results

Harold: Nothing happens when you hit validate

EricP: something else happens with the "failing data" example

Harold: If you change the shape from human to dog you also have to change focus nodes. Shape name is irrelevant. 

EricP: If you right-click on any of the input boxes.

Gregg: Using bnode labels is not RDF

Dimitris: The right click is handy ;  could also move to leftclick.

### Conformance reporting
Open issue: how much - whether something conforms or not-  if you pass something and then you test its conformance and then you get results- we don't say how to report those results- just whether or not it conforms. 

Harold: Not "validates", but "conforms".
There will be variation in how people report stuff
Some tie back to spec other give you a boolean

Harold: If you look at this example I would expect a checkbox or red X since it is a form of a report- right now not obvious it did anything

ErciP: I was trying to tease out between critiqe of interface vs. what every ShEx implemnetation should do

Harold: THey are related-  I need to be able to tell did thi spass or not? We need at a min. a nice boolean vlaue that says yea or nay

EricP: I hope you're not saying we need a uniform interface

Harold: I think we need a uniform response- I need to be able to understand whether it passed or not

EricP: I we start saying here's the format for the response it will take us a long time to figure out all use cases and all forms of response we'd want

Harold: Boolean yea / nay , why would that be an issue?

EricP: How is it represented? Boolean is already in the spec, if you ant an API, then we have to figure out reporting by language, plus error messages, etc

Harold: Yes, that would be too far, it seems like we can define a minimal response message in each of the response formats. You're simultaneously arguing this is too complicated to show the user. We don't have any way to tell you if it conforms to the spec or not

Jose: Maybe the idea of having a shapemap as output. If it includes negative statments that could be the output of the validation

EricP: There is an output shape map that only shows the positives.

Harold: i would expect to see 3 checkboxes down right siad - in this cae they'd all be green because all conform. I want enought instructuions to know how to get a green check box for anyone else's implementation
I don't mind going into extra info somewhere else, tutporial shoul db eabout how to use generic ShEx.

Dimitris: In SHACL, there is a global CONFORMS which tells you whether everything that was expectedd to conform did so.
Since ShEx is different, I agree with Jose whcih would capture success for everying in the input ShapeMap.

Jose: Implementations could have different details but we want something that lists whether a node conforms with a shape.
Since there are references, we may see other node/shape/resolve triples in the results.

Harold: +1 to "conforms"

Andra: I fully agree here.

Gregg: we can't forget the startAction which is different from the ShapeMape.

EricP: You could ask the question on the input- you could give node-shpe pairs instead of triples. You find out at the end if all that was true.

Dimitris: you also have negative shapes. Do you want a global CONFORMS?

Harold: to avoid this being an expensive task, a global CONFORMS at a bare minimum, more detailed CONFORMS, time permitting.

Gregg: propose WebIDL

Harold, ericP: +1 to WebIDL

Gregg: respec has reasonable support for WebIDL

Dimitris: Do we want to propose something now or discuss proposals offline?

Gregg: I think we can do a strawman WebIDL definition. Created issue #43: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/43

Dimitris:Should we try to do a publication of the spec as a working draft?
Or work on the Primer?

EricP:Cost-benefit analysis: certian amount of acrimony from SHACL folks, there's question of do we want to do this in a few weeks since there is attention on SHACL right now.

Harold: it will be worse either way.

EricP:Cost is low, other than only one opportunity to make a first impression. get webIDL, tweak the interface, incorporate Jose's work as well. Want to delay publications for a month?

Michael: I have not been able to do much up to now, so I would like more time.

### Tom's text https://github.com/shexSpec/primer/blob/tomedits/Text-to-add.txt

Tom: I like this discussion about conformace test results, getting that clarified is a step forward. In terms of impact and getting attention without coming out with a cometing spec, would be to get the demo clarified and create a youtube video that people would tweet to show how it works..
That sort of thing gets people looking at ShEx without making the full commitment of a full spec right away. Video could be a screencast and steping through parts of the demo.
I pictured that we needed a short text that could provide some context for the demo. Then Eric convinced me that I should create a section in the existing primer called QuickStart. I started writing a text for that, it became longer than I had pictured. I tried to articulate underlying assumptions for ShEx and to use terminology consistently based on Harld's notes on validation/ conformatnce, so I just made a few tweaks. I saw some inconsistencies in SHACL about how things are named. It would be good to get longer elevator pitch clear- I tried to articulate how ShEx works using part of it in the introduction, then creating a shorter text that would go into the qucik start without getting into the details of abstract syntax. I would appreciate any feedback that you may have. 
Insttead of folding this into the Primer, perhaps we could edit to it before it gets split up and spread around other parts of the Primer. If SHACL is called a constraint language they should define what they mean by constraint. SHACL still has not defined constraint. 

Harold: I agree that constraint language might not make sense. If we're talking about a database shema, the fact that we constrain the values of a field to 10 characters or less, yes that is technically a constraint, but one shape constrains what is described in another shape.

Andra: I usually call it a modeling and validation language

EricP: in RDF 1.1 working group we tried to remove shema, everyone agreed, but then it got published as RDF Schema again. 

Harold: Try to steer clear of calling it a constraint language, people who know constraint languages are going to be disappointed.

Tom: In the abstract it talks about shape not schema- I'd love it if we called them shapes and not sc
hema. 

Andra: Agree on not calling it a schema

Andra: I like the quick start concept. Could we extend to a gallery of examples. So you have many examples to pull from to try out their own shapes. 

Tom: Github is the new wiki.

EricP: I might write a shape into a repo, but I won't be maintaining it there. 

Andra: Problem with github is that you can't really discuss using github.: Using github now: https://github.com/andrawaag/ShEx/tree/master/wikidata

Dimitris: Tom's attempt is an abstract of ShEx, this can be a basis for using the terminology for the larger spec and the later texts we will produce. Maybe we can have 2 people proofread the text and mark sentences that need attention with regard to terminology.

EricP: It would be good to be familiar w section 4 of the spec, so you can see how it was defined and so if you need to propose a refinement you'll see the related concepts that might also need to be refined. 

[Action](#Proofread3) Harold to proofread Tom's text and mark sentences that need terminology improvements
