## Telecon Feb 03th 2017 Minutes

Participants: Dimitris, Iovka, Kat, Jesse, ericP, Tom, Gregg, Andra, labra

Scribe: Andra

### Topic: Introduction

Tom Baker: worked with Dublin Core since 1996.  The notion of Application Profiles was introduced in 2000. In 2007, a working draft Description Set Profile Constraint Language spec - http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-dsp/
it was never implemented. had good ideas. was based on library and cultural heritage experience
When we saw announcements for the RDF Validation Workshop. Karen Coyle has been representing DCMI in the Data Shapes WG but DCMI has left the group.
I'm particularly interested in working on the primer and explaining ShEx for a wider audience. Am just now wading into ShEx. I like the online tool where you can select blocks to validate.
Would love to see something like the online ShEx demo implemented in Jupyter Notebooks. There are kernels now for Python, Ruby, and Javascript.

DCMI meeting in Crystal City DC.  - http://dcevents.dublincore.org/IntConf/dc-2017 

Dimitris: RDFUnit implements part of DCProfiles

## Open tasks

## Wiki cleanup

ericP: it's done - Yaska and I cleaned up the old stuff, the resulting home page is a bit cluttered, more stuff could leave the home page, but we're ready to use the wiki as the CG home page now.

## Chair nominations

Dimitris: I was nominated last time, but we thought we might suggest co-chairs. (general aclamation!)
Dimitris got select as chair for life

## Feedback on section 1-4 of the spec

https://shexspec.github.io/spec/

Eric: you need to read the document linearly, so feedback on section 2 requires having read section 1. That said, volunteers would be great.
... Section 4 is challenging, section 2 needs work on the JSG grammar.

## Workflow for opening & managing issues

Issue tracking & discussion
A lot of discussion takes place in github issues and not on mailing list
Workflow for opening & managing issues

Dimitris: currently, workflow is pretty open, but mostly cover high-level issues, and we need to discuss general workflow. Since this is a CG, we should not be very strict; anyone can open an issue. We might want to define lables for specific types of issues, and how we vote.

Eric: So far, the ShEx Spec project (see below). Mostly used for raising language issues. many are for 2.1, and not current. The test suite has no issues, but issues should go on that repo. There are also the shexspec.github.io, primer, ... The resource list has all the stuff I try to keep track of. If you're looking at the spec and want to see a change, you can raise an issue, or do a PR.
  https://github.com/shexSpec/ -> shexspec project
  https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues -> language issues
  https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest -> test suite could have issue
  http://shexspec.github.io/ -> resource list
  
Dimitris: I suggest that I and Eric can write a page on the wiki on writing issues and what the workflow is.

Eric: I suggest it's good enough, and we can adjust if there are issues.

Tom: I wanted to ask if we could use an IRC channel; that's a good way to raise a hand, or suggest a topic for discussion.

Eric: we were ambivalent about that before, because in the etherpad we get to correct mistakes easier than in IRC.

Tom: I think having a channel open on the side is useful for making comments.

Eric: during a meeting we keep an eye on Gitter; between meetings, we hang out there. We'll try to work out Google issues by next meeting.

gitter link: https://gitter.im/shapeExpressions/Lobby?source=orgpage

## Role of RDF in ShEx

Dicussion: what whould be the role of RDF as ShEx representation
Transforming RDF to ShEx model (GenJ? JSON-LD Framing?)

-> https://shexspec.github.io/spec ShEx Specification/ - see https://github.com/shexSpec/shex

Dimitris: We need to define the roles of RDF and JSON; what's the normative syntax of ShEx?

Eric: I refer to the ShEx Spec GitHub repo; the way the spec currently works, it has near the top a notation section which introduces a JSON grammar section, which takes the place of an abstract grammar. In our case, it seems useful to use a concrete syntax, so we can have examples. The abstract syntax is basically what ShExJ was just recently. The other approach is to make it less like ShExJ --- Unlike ShExJ it would have a mapping from shape name to shape, which just prevents you having two things on a list with the same key. The other place we have a difference is that it has semantic actions and cardinalities built into the triple expressions, and a real abstract syntax would have them split apart. There's nothing that talks about ShExR in the spec, given we have ShExJ, which is JSON-LD, we have an RDF representation. One stratagy is to just release it as is, as we have a working RDF representation. THat would allow us to say here's the spec for ShExJ, here's how you parse ShExC into ShExJ, and release the context for ShExJ and call it release 2.0.

http://shexspec.github.io/ns/ -- ShEx RDFS vocabulary.

Eric: ShExC is the compact syntax - gives an ordered traversal of RDF graph.  DSL.  Uses same tokens as turtle and SPARQL.  Grammar for constructing shapes. Primer. Spec, written in JSON structure.  ShExC parses to ShExJ.  ShExR is the RDF representation: what you get when you parse ShExJ with supplied context.  Validates itself.

Gregg: Downside of that tool is that it makes it harder to cut-and-paste.

Eric: Not any more!

-> https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest/tree/master/doc schemas for ShEx

Short list of all the different formats: https://www.w3.org/2001/sw/wiki/ShEx section: Syntax and Serialization formats

Eric: canonicalization involves ordering shapes by labels, expanding first references inline, and subsequent references as just references.

Dimitris: do we have a normative syntax?

Eric: I think it's ShExJ.

Dimitris: in ShExC you have ordering, but in RDF, order is lost.

Eric: The JSON grammar tells you which things are sets and which are lists. That tells you where order matters. Is it better to anchor semantics on the same form as we use for the normative representation. I think using ShExJ as the anchor for the semantics, and ShExC as a compilation to ShExJ, and ShExR as being the JSON-LD interpretation of ShExJ. Section 4 needs an update WRT changes to the "LD-ification" of ShExJ. As an artifact, ShExJ has a notion of references both for inclusions and shape references. Given that we don't need those for -LD, we don't need separate structures.

Eric: we can put a .htaccess in the shexspec.githup.io, that would allow us to have terse context and namespace prefixes. We could stick everything into the shexspec.github.io site.

[ACTION](#update-sec-4-for-issue-22): EricP to update Section 4 to reflect decision on [issue 22](https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/22); Gregg will help.

(some related technical discussion taking place)

## Primer

Dimitris: Tom expressed interest in working on the primer

Tom: I am interested but I am not yet comfortable with the language

