

## Telecon 2017-03-31 Minutes

Participants: Gregg, Kat, Eric, Jesse, Karen,  Dimitris, Tom, labra, Andra

    
Regrets: 

Call info meeting # 198 739 372
+1-415-655-0001
Scribe:  Gregg

Dimitris: Andras action 
## Open actions
### Andra to proof-read Eric's text on NP-Complete
* Eric: Andra claims to have completed the proof-read.

## Discuss feedback from announcement
* Dimitris: Good public feedback, any private feedback?
* Eric: Heard from someone with positive feedback. - from Inria

## Publishing of report in CG page
* Dimitris: I closed Tom's issue about publishing the reports on the CG page.
* Eric: Do we want to write a blog issue.
* Gregg: I added a blog issue which was a copy of the announcement.

## Discuss Differences between ShEx and SHACL
* Dimitris: I atteneded the SHACL meeting after the ShEx announcement. I suggested that we create a document and that both communities draft a statement to describe the differences, including their main motivations. However, there was no initiative to start something. Do we want to start something that SHACL can follow up on?
* Eric: I'm pretty ambivalant. One question we'd have to answer is how technical it is; this is challenging, since if we talk about features, we end up talking about the behavior of repeated properties in ShEx against qualified cardinality constraints in SHACL. Also, SHACL has an exclusive OR, and ShEx oneOf is difference. We end up talking about less-expressive ways to make them compatible. It is more like a conference paper. We could also just do it on the surface syntax, but that won't really do it justice.
* Gregg: Another approach: look at a use case and
 see how it would be handled in ShEx/SHACL.
* Eric: Then we have to cherry-pick which may favor one or the other.
* Andra: The Monarch initiative is doing a comparison.
* Dimitris: Sandro is now the SHACL staff member, and suggested the following:
```
    (Possible) Outline of Comparison 
     * List of Implementations (with statements about future plans)
     * List of Other Endorsements (with statements about future plans)
     * One Example (a Hello World) in both
     * Examples that show differencessandro:  (screenshots of tools count like syntax, too)
``` 
 * Eric: We could try this approach and see what document comes out as. We'd want to liez with the SHACL group to come up with mutually acceptable wording. Dimitris, could you represent both groups?
 * Dimitris: I can do this, but I'll need some help. Next week is hard, but could do something the following week (Eric to help)

### Action: Dimitris to draft a comparison statement. (help by Eric, Labra, and Andra)

* Labra: I can try to help with this too.
* Andra: I am considering to volunteer too, I have limited understanding of SHACL, but I've been doing work on WikiData in ShEx, and this might be a good use case.
* Dimitris: let's start with a Google Doc, then we can transfer to a Wiki. I propose to have a private document that all members of each group can access. It will remain private until all members agree to clear comments and make it public. If you disagree, make a comment.
* Karen: It sounds like the focus is from the user point-of-view. Would it be good to bring in the validation point-of-view.
* Dimitris: I think we should tackle the user POV. What do you mean about the validation POV?
* Karen: My concern is that I don't think we have indication that there are enough different implementations of SHACL; from the user POV, we're talking about Top Braid. I also don't know if there are other implementations of SHACL Full, rather than just Core. Can you compare ShEx to SHACL with SPARQL/SPIN?
* Eric: It get's complex if we say what you can do in SHACL with it's extensibility mechanism, compared with ShEx' extensibility mechanism.
* Karen: Can we make it clear that we're talking about SHACL core? (And ShEx Core?)
* Dimitris: Maybe two types of comparison, Core and with extensions.
* Karen: The main thing would be in the document to be clear what we're talking about. It would also be interesting to show what you get back from some real data. That may be beyond what we're doing, but if we're talking about SHACL, how do we distinguish from the spec and a product?
* Dimitris: There were some other attempts at implementations.
* Labra: I have an implementation of SHACL Core. I'm not planning on implementing SHACL SPARQL by now.
* Karen: In the intro to the document, we need to say it's Core only. If we run some examples to say exactly what we ran them against.
* Dimitris: Focus on SHACL/ShEx Core with an extra section to discuss extensions.

## Open Issues for v2.0
### Discuss Update Antlr grammar to be in synch with the recent changes in BNF : https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/39
* Labra: I don't have any real issues right now.
* Eric: I think we were in sync, but we needed to merge some decisions the CG made, which haven't been reflected back. I'd be happy to work with Labra to make sure we haven't introduced errors.
* Labra: I'm using ANTLR, but I'm not an expert. If we change the ANTLR grammer, I'm not sure we're not making mistakes, the only way to do this is to test the implementation. The issue was a reminder to update the grammars; the main problem that we need something to verify it.
* Eric: Harold was also planning on verifying this using the JSG, but there's an issue to be resolved.
* Labra: I wasn't planning on working on it in the next coupld of weeks, but afterwards I can try to get them in sync.
* Eric: There were a bunch of changes that need to be done; I have reminders of what to update. We can do a reasonable job without building a parser.
* Jesse: Looking at the JSG, a shape can have a triple expression, but there is ??? that can't have a normal syntax. A shape having several expressions (eachOf) EachOf has multiplicity, but the root can only have card 1. Other things look okay, but I say this problem when I tried to create a generator.
* Eric: I'll be back in your timezone in a couple of days, we could work on it next week.

### Discuss Use of schema start vs shapeMap: https://github.com/shexSpec/shex/issues/37
* Dimitris: This is about saying when nodes should not validate.
* Eric: As defined now, they're all positive. We'd need to add something to make the map a shape/pass-fail pair.
* Labra: It's easy for the implications. We already have to track negations. That way we could accept a ShapeMap and emit a ShapeMap.
* Eric: to make that concrete, a reason to have that is that we could use it to parsel out the validation job. If I have a validator with dependent external shapes, I could send that out to something else and get back results I could use to complete execution. The downside is that we have a more complex structure.
* Gregg: ShapeMap is currently a simple map of key to value so we'd ahve to add structure. OTOH, we've already got a results format with a success and a reason. We'd get to reuse that. I like the idea of being able to separate pieces of the validation and merge the results. We should add ShEx Federation for 2.1.
* Dimitris: 2.1 or 2.0?
* Gregg: we published this spec with the expectation that we'd be "feature complete". I think we should take a comment period and standardize 2.0 without new features. We've also discusssed changes to ShExJ which would leverage JSON-LD 1.1 features. 
* Eric: There's always the sense that if I added it before, I wouldn't have to support two formats. But it's probably friendlist of us to allow both formats, because it's easier for us. I think we'd have to support both representations anyway, so it doesn't cost us to support what we have now in 2.0 and extend in 2.1.
* Jesse: I'm fine with invocation as it is now.
* Eric: How about having node: {shape, pass_fail} in 2.1?
* Jesse: It's important that I can do validation per shape. When someone adds an object to the document that it just validates that document.
* Eric: that's met by both APIs.
* Jose: happy to leave to 2.1

**PROPOSED**: move "ShapeMap with negative declarations" for version 2.1
* +1(ericP) 
* +1 (Dimitris)
* +1 (Jesse)
* +1 (Gregg)
* +1 tom
* +1 (labra)
* +1 (karen)
* +1 Kat
* +1 Andra

**RESOLVED**: move "ShapeMap with negative declarations" for version 2.1


### Discuss Design a nice logo for ShEx
* Dimitris: At some point there was a logo floating around.
* Eric: Harold came up with something too, but it didn't have a transparent background. 

logo: https://www.w3.org/2015/ShEx-Icon.svg
I used that logo here; https://figshare.com/articles/Using_Shape_Expressions_ShEx_to_model_validate_and_curate_Wikidata/4766002
* Andra: I actually kind of like Eric's, it needs some styling, but I like the idea.
* Labra: Perhaps some graphical designer could do a good job, but we can just leave this open and not couple it to 2.1. This process can take a long time. If someone finds a better logo, we can discuss it again. I'm happy leaving it for the next version, or re-write history with a new logo. I think some designer could do a good job.
* Dimitris: If we decide on a logo now, then we don't have to worry about propogating a change later on. Perhaps we can find someone that can help improve it.
* Labra: I have someone I can ask, but I don't know if he'll work for free.
* Andra: There's a "Fiver" website where you can throw something up for people to do for $5.
* Eric: I'm happy to throw a little money at this.

The designer could list their name on the commons upload.

## Roadmap for 2.1
* Labra: What's the plan for now; should we try to make 2.0 more stable? Or start on 2.1?
* Eric: I'm happy to work on 2.1 in parallel, as long as we don't have a backlog of things for 2.0.
* Gregg: we should tag 2.0 so that the master and gh-pages can track the latest. I think there are some lagging tests. It would be nice to update the Implementation Report.
* Labra: I'll work on updating my EARL report.
* Gregg: in the JSON-LD API there's a version specifier. We can use that to tag test.
* Eric: People just want to get a tar-ball and run against those tests.
* Gregg: we don't want to continuously updae the shexTest/2.0 branch. I expect that e.g. 3.0 would have negative syntax tests that currently pass. An API version would allow implementations to select the right tests. ericP and I discussed using the @context to signal the different between ShExJ-2.{0,1}
* Dimitris: Since 2.0 is stable now, and 2.1 is not released, 2.1 test should not be in the master branch.
* Greg: We should not leave many branches in the repo thay can be confusing

### Action: Gregg & Eric to look for branches that can be removed.

## Other issues
* Eric: When we published, we were stuck with old ReSpec. The new ReSpec caused problems with the primer; I believe I've solved the problems so we can use the latest ReSpec.
* Gregg: does "try it " work on github version?
* Eric: I believe it works on all of them now. I was a bit suprized that when I did a save, I didn't have to edit the JS to do the "onRespecLoaded", it took care of that.

* Dimitris: Next meeting in two weeks.

