# ShEx CG Meeting 2022-01-19

Chair: Andra

Attendees: Labra, Kat, Tom, Seyed, ericP

Scribe: Kat

## Community Updates

* ericP: Built a tool that takes shex and spits out JSONLD @context. Nice that it works with jsonld in js- resoves @contexts dynamically, which is needed for recursive validation. 
* Andra: In SWAT4LS conf. Working with Labra and Seyed about subsets. Two groups at Hackathon. Shex tutorial on Monday. ericP did a tutorial on FHIR. 
* Andra: I updates agendas for 2022 in github. Time change for CG meetings going forward. 
* Labra: SWAT4LS tutorial. on Thursday interactive entity schema writing. 
  Link: https://www.validatingrdf.com/tutorial/swat4hcls22/
We wrote an issue about expressing this aspect of date information in ShEx: https://github.com/shexSpec/spec/issues/44
* Seyed: Participated in ShEx tutorial at SWAT4LS. Topis: subsetting and reference quality. Managed to import PyShEx into my reference quality framework.
* Andra: We have a W3C group: https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/shex/participants 

## EXTENDS
* ericP: Labra do you know where you stand in terms of the tests and what we agree or disagree on.
* Labra: Just ran tests. Prob is that there may be something wrong with my implementation. I need to invesitage and debug.
* ericP: Would pairing help?
* Labra: I need to clean a few things up. Then we can do a session. Instead of doing the spec updates as a branch, maybe we could publish it as a working draft.
* ericP: In the test suite 10 or so branches that have different features in them. Make it so shex.io reflects a certain set of branches- click to go see spec for those branches. A subset of those have a corresponding branch of the spec. It would be nice if each of them had a corresponding branch of the spec and for shex.io would reflect all of this.
* Labra: We have sable 2.1, go for 2.2 that would include EXTENDS. W3C differentiates between working drafts and recommendations. Since we are a working group we should have a stable one and a next one so that we can evolve the language more easily.
* ericP: We can adopt the working draft style sheet whenever we want with editor's draft. 
* Labra: Right now you need to point people to a hard to find location if they want to implement EXTENDS. 
* ericP: I like the WebAssembly group does this. They have a main and they have a page of features. I prefer doing it by branch than by speculative number.
* Labra: I'm also missing a place for issues related to the features.
We also want to involve people working on multiple impl. Ex shapemap- publish as something related to the CG.
* ericP: Make sure grammar is aligned with what we are both implementing. 
Once we have something that works we can take it to Andy. 
* Labra: The grammar I'm using is a bit different. 
- Link to ShExDoc.g4 here: https://github.com/shexSpec/grammar/blob/master/ShExDoc.g4
- The one that ShEx-s is using is here: https://github.com/weso/shex-s/blob/master/modules/shex/src/main/antlr4/ShExDoc.g4
* ericP: We got lazy on grammar and it doesn't hurt to reserve the space in the grammar for it.
 Maybe I could make an extends branch now and merge yours in. Also we need to check in with Andy to see if merging that to main will break stuff of his.
* Labra: the grammar doesn't have the `@` on the EXTENDS shape label reference. Looking at the repo for the grammar there is no branch called extends.
* ericP: There were some tests I was trying to run. 
* Andra: I was experimenting with automating minute taking. Should we  consider using note-taking plugins.
Do we want discord- set up channel that gives screensharing and video conferencing.
* Labra: Scala was using gitter and they moved to discord. Right now a lot of people are moving to discord.
